it could be said that I'm a bit of a
Harry Potter fan I jumped onto the
series when I was 12 just after coming
out yes I came out that young which was
also just after the release of Goblet of
Fire I devoured the first four books
between September and November of 2001
just in time for Harry Potter and the
Philosopher's Stone to hit theaters
since then I've watched every movie too
many times to count
and I reread the entire series at least
once a year it's a bit of a tradition
for me at this point I also have the
audiobooks read by Stephen Fry and
listen to them every night as I go to
sleep
they're like ASMR for me so maybe I'm
more than just a bit of a Harry Potter
fan it eats at me every day that I
haven't gotten to go to the Wizarding
World of Harry Potter at Universal
Studios yet someday so growing up gay
during the years at the Bush
administration JK Rowling's books were a
bit of a respite for me a place I could
return to when the real world bigots
became too much to handle it was a place
where wizards of all races and
backgrounds intermingled in the same
school and were the characters who hate
muggles were obviously the villains
there was no looking at it from both
sides arguments in Harry Potter like
there was on CNN Baltimore hated muggles
and mud Bloods and he was the bad guy
Republicans hated gay people but that
was their quote religious freedom so it
was a bit of a shock to me when I
started seeing people online call out JK
Rowling for being homophobic or at the
very least being supportive of gay
erasure the controversy over
Dumbledore's gayness and whether or not
it would exist in the new Fantastic
beast films was getting some people a
little tilted the fervor is died down
for the moment but I'm sure it'll be
back up in full swing by the time the
release of fantastic beasts the crimes
of Grindelwald comes around in November
so I decided to take this time to look
at the world that JK Rowling created the
characters that inhabit it and see what
gayness I could gleam from it to answer
the question of why was I a newly out
gay kid so completely obsessed with
Harry Potter when there was an area gay
character to be seen
what did I find so appealing about the
Boy Who Lived besides that
[Music]
Harry Potter in the Philosopher's Stone
was first published in June of 1997 and
begun the story of Harry Potter a child
wizard who was orphaned when his parents
James and Lily were murdered by Lord
Voldemort Harry is sent to live with his
muggle hot and uncle on his mother's
side the Dursleys the Dursleys are
completely aware of Harry's Wizarding
lineage and here is where the comparison
to growing up gay begins many times gay
children are completely unaware that
they're gay they don't feel attraction
to people of the same sex yet and even
though they may have characteristics
that don't perfectly align with the
gender norms girls that are tom boys and
boys that are [ __ ] boys they don't feel
any different from anyone else most of
the time but sometimes the adults in
their lives pick up on these
characteristics especially with little
boys a boy who likes playing with dolls
prefers disney princesses to
transformers or likes to wear the color
pink might be made fun of by his peers
even by adults his own family might
punish him for liking these things not
allowing him to play with girls refusing
to buy him toys or clothing that could
in any way be construed as feminine the
child is made to feel ashamed of what
they like the adults in their life are
shaming them for being who they are
which it was I was the only one to see
her for what she was and then she had
you when I knew he would be the same
just
strange justice abnormal they know that
Harry is likely a wizard
especially when odd happenings begin to
take place in his early childhood things
that the Dursleys immediately spot as
magic
even when Harry's a baby to put a stop
to it they lied to him about his family
telling him that his parents had died in
a car crash and that the lightning bolts
scar on his head was also a result of
said crash they wouldn't allow him to
see pictures of his parents and even hid
his existence from others by having him
live in a cupboard under the stairs
stashing him there or whenever they had
company it's not a far stretch to see
Harry's near imprisonment in the
cupboard as being trapped in a closet
the Dursleys also made sure to have no
pictures of Harry around the house he
was made to feel shame by the Dursleys
and everyone in their orbit for
something he didn't understand something
he didn't even know he was this happens
a lot - gage hildren especially in
particularly religious families pray
away the gay cams regularly have
prepubescent children admitted by
parents who think they might possibly
maybe could be gay need to put a stop to
it before they realize it for themselves
create the shame that will if not
actually cure it it doesn't at least
stop the child from eventually acting on
their urges and so Vernon and petunia
Dursley did everything they could to
keep Harry ignorant of his true heritage
to make sure he stayed in the closet so
this week they took particularly drastic
action when Harry begun receiving
invitations to join other people like
him
the Dursleys especially Vernon who had a
particular hatred of anything not quote
normal wouldn't let Harry even leave the
house eventually they stowed Harry away
on a rock in the sea quite literally in
the middle of nowhere but try as they
might Harry could not be kept in the
closet with the help of Rubeus Hagrid
Harry was ushered into the Wizarding
World how did he enter the Wizarding
World well the same way a lot of gay
people enter the gay world for the first
time via a bar a bar that on the outside
seems nondescript enough but the inside
is populated by people the outside world
would not accept
remember Harry Potter and the
Philosopher's Stone was written in the
early 90s at the height of the AIDS
crisis being gay was still very behind
the counter and a nondescript paper bag
secret quiet something you didn't
necessarily broadcast to the world many
gay men and women at the time never met
another gay person until they went to a
gay bar and that's what Harry Potter
does he enters the leaky cauldron and is
exposed to a magical world he had no
idea existed not to mention he joins
this world by being brought into the
back room with a big hairy guy but we
won't talk about that when harry enters
the magical world he meets any number of
new people who are just like him
people his own age who he learns things
alongside of people younger than him who
would idolize him and eccentric older
mentor figures that look out for him a
lot like the gay community of the early
90s there was no protection for sexual
orientation in England until 2003 so at
the time of Harry Potter's writing you
still had to keep your gayness hidden
for the most part unless you wanted to
run the risk of being outed and possibly
losing your job your family your friends
everything and so gay men and women
created their own social networks their
own support networks to help each other
through the tough times separated from
the quote normal world or as Rowling
would put at the muggle world in the
1980s the Thatcher government was almost
as hesitant as the Reagan government to
acknowledge the AIDS epidemic as people
drop dead from this blood-borne plague
Thatcher and Reagan went about their
lives business as usual much like how
the Ministry of Magic refused to
acknowledge the return of Voldemort
until they simply could not turn a blind
eye anymore it's bad and much like in
the real world it was too late the
damage had been done people were dead
and more were dying every day both
wizards and muggles alike fell at the
hand of Voldemort gay people and stray
people both died from a disease that
could have possibly been slowed down if
not stopped
if only the government had cared enough
there actually is a direct allegory for
aids in the Harry Potter books and that
is lycanthropy or being a werewolf a
condition thrust upon Remus Lupin at a
young age when he was attacked by Fenrir
Greyback non too subtle rape allegory
Remus was terrified to disclose his
condition to his friends and did
everything he could to hide it from them
much like many gay men in the 1980s who
were diagnosed with HIV Rowling herself
confirmed the allegorical meaning of
lycanthropy in her ebook short stories
from Hogwarts of heroism hardship and
dangerous hobbies released in 2016
not everything gay related in Harry
Potter is allegory though some things
are actually written in the text
themselves such as the relationship
between Dumbledore and Gellert
Grindelwald the story of the two men is
told in pieces in Harry Potter and the
Deathly Hollows after Dumbledore's death
in the sixth novel a salacious
in-universe biography of Dumbledore is
published the life and lies of Albus
Dumbledore by Rita Skeeter in this book
it is revealed that Dumbledore had a
very close relationship with Gellert
Grindelwald who would go on to become
the equivalent of wizard Hitler in the
book this is the biggest controversy
which turns out to be pretty accurate
right down to Dumbledore refusing to
stop his old friend even as he murdered
his way across Europe during the years
of world war ii though the two did
eventually faceoff with Dumbledore
winning in Grindelwald being locked away
until his death at the hands of Valda
Mort in 1998 but the real controversy
sprung up in the real world when JK
Rowling was asked if Albus Dumbledore
had ever known true love Rowling stated
that Dumbledore was in fact gay and over
time went into some detail in regard to
his love for Grindelwald as a young man
a love and infatuation that lasted well
into adulthood she has said that the
feelings were not entirely mutual and
the Grindelwald may have been using
Dumbledore's love for him to control the
young wizard other theories say that the
feelings were mutual
but the Grindelwald lust for power was
greater than his love for Dumbledore the
pair split after the death of
Dumbledore's younger sister Ariana a
death that Dumbledore blamed himself for
this trauma on top
being so tragically betrayed by
Grindelwald led to Dumbledore becoming
as Rowling put it quite asexual between
1945 and his death in 1997 Dumbledore
did not take any lovers as far as we
know so though he is confirmed to be gay
he may have only ever actually loved one
man many straight fans felt betrayed
that the Dumbledore they grew up with
thinking was straight was suddenly gay
ah you have inserted politics into my
children's novel and many gay fans felt
betrayed the Dumbledore sexuality was
never actually stated outright in the
books the betrayal of gay fans was
compounded when Dumbledore was announced
to be a leading character in the new
series of fantastic beasts movies but
director David Yates stated that they
will not explicitly mention Dumbledore
sexuality in the second film the crimes
of Grindelwald some fans took this to
mean it would never be addressed in the
five film series others like myself are
willing to give it a bit more breathing
room especially since there was already
a lot of homoeroticism in the first
fantastic peace movie in fantastic
beasts and where to find them
Grindelwald has taken on the guise of
Percival graves and infiltrated the
makuu's ax or the magical Congress of
the United States of America to hunt
down an obscure e 'l an extremely
powerful young wizard whose magic is
literally exploding out of them due to
it being suppressed he recruits credence
played by out actor Azra miller to help
him track it down their relationship is
more than just a little close do you
think I'm a freak
No
I think you're a very special young man
or I wouldn't have asked you to help me
now would I
I want you to have this credence I would
trust very few with it very soon
with you you different watching it it's
quite easy to see the Grindelwald is
doing exactly the Creedence what he did
to Dumbledore decades before creating an
emotional connection with the fragile
young man using him and then dropping
him as soon as he appears to no longer
be useful as it turns out Creedence
himself was the obscure and in the end
of the film Grindelwald is so distraught
at his apparent demise at the hands of
the Makua
that he begins to lose control of his
disguise eventually being discovered and
arrested the relationship between
credence and Grindelwald isn't exactly
subtle in the film you'd have to try
pretty hard to ignore the homosexual
undertones between the two characters I
read this as Rowling who wrote the
screenplay laying the groundwork for
more overt homosexual themes in later
films ensuring that the audience would
allow her to tell the story of
Grindelwald and Dumbledore properly
without straight washing it that's how I
read it
but maybe I'm being optimistic we'll see
this November when the crimes of
Grindelwald is released and finally
there's the issue of Harry Potter and
the cursed child and the gay love affair
between Albus Potter and Scorpius Malfoy
that never was but I think that's a
whole other video so what do you think
about the gay themes in the Harry Potter
universe do you think Rowling Yates and
Warner Brothers will actually show
Dumbledore's gayness in the upcoming
movies or will he be straight washed let
me know in the comments below
don't forget to Like and subscribe and
if you've got some sickles nuts or even
galleons burning a hole in your pocket
check out my patreon in the description
below you can vote on which videos I do
next and even suggest ones you'd like to
see you have no idea how much I would
appreciate it so until next time my
fellow witches and wizards mischief
managed
[Music]
[Applause]
you